CHAOS-5497 Linux JVM method latency (#6781)
harness/developer-hub: docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/linux/linux-jvm-method-latency.md

---
id: linux-jvm-method-latency
title: Linux JVM method latency
---

import Ossupport from './shared/note-supported-os.md'
import FaultPermissions from './shared/fault-permissions.md'

> Linux JVM method latency slows down the Java application by introducing delays in the operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Linux JVM method latency slows down the Java application by introducing delays in executing method calls.
```

:::tip
JVM chaos faults use the [Byteman utility](https://byteman.jboss.org/) to inject chaos faults into the JVM.
:::

![Linux JVM method latency](./static/images/linux-jvm-method-latency.png)

## Use cases
Linux JVM method latency:
- Determines the performance bottlenecks of the application.

> - Tests the system's ability to handle high payloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tests the system's ability to handle heavy payloads.
```

- Evaluates the application's behavior in high-stress cases.
- Determines how quickly an application returns to normalcy after the delay.

> - Determines the performance and resilience of the application (or services) running on Linux JVMs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Determines the performance and resilience of dependant applications (or services) running on Linux.
```
